# PhD materials
This is a repository containing open source materials developed for my PhD thesis (Archaeology). The thesis will be available online through a Catalan repository (www.tdx.cat). It is written in Spanish and English, with abstracts for every chapter in Spanish, Catalan, and English.

- A QGIS project with a **_vectorial layer_** (polygons) containing a proposal of the historical regions of Central Asia and Near East (Figure 2.6). What I understand as "historical region" is explained in the thesis in the Introduction (Chapter 2). Essentialy, historical regions are clusters of interactions that may emerge and exist during a significant period. There is also another vectorial layer with many important historical settlements. My proposal focus on the period roughly between 1000 BC and 1000 AD. Although based on many references I consulted for writing my thesis, the proposal and any imprecision is my own. The spirit of sharing it publicly is that people can **_use_**, **_extend_**, and **_improve_** it for their own sake and that of the community. **NOTE**: when opening the QGIS project, you may need to set the correct local path for the two shape files.

- Small **_R script_** for generating chronological plots relating some historical regions of Central Asia and periods based on material culture (prehistory) and political or cultural predominance (historical times). There is also a small list of important events that can be used when generating the timeline plot. The selected timespan goes from 3500 BC to 1500 AD. Labels are in Spanish, except for a few names specific of certain regions (material cultures). The text can easily be translated since most periods are referenced in multilingual resources as Wikipedia.

Thesis details:

>Angourakis, Andreas (2018) "Exploration and modeling of socioecological and technocultural patterns in pre-industrial societies of arid Afro-Eurasian zones: A multidisciplinary approach based on quantitative methods". PhD thesis. University of Barcelona. [to be accessible online]
